README.md, before:

# Universal Manipulation Interface

[[Project page]](https://umi-gripper.github.io/)
[[Paper]](https://umi-gripper.github.io/#paper)
[[Hardware Guide]](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1TPYwV9sNVPAi0ZlAupDMkXZ4CA1hsZx7YDMSmcEy6EU/edit?usp=sharing)
[[Data Collection Instruction]](https://swanky-sphere-ad1.notion.site/UMI-Data-Collection-Tutorial-4db1a1f0f2aa4a2e84d9742720428b4c?pvs=4)
[[SLAM repo]](https://github.com/cheng-chi/ORB_SLAM3)
[[SLAM docker]](https://hub.docker.com/r/chicheng/orb_slam3)

<img width="90%" src="assets/umi_teaser.png">

[Cheng Chi](http://cheng-chi.github.io/)<sup>1,2</sup>,
[Zhenjia Xu](https://www.zhenjiaxu.com/)<sup>1,2</sup>,
[Chuer Pan](https://chuerpan.com/)<sup>1</sup>,
[Eric Cousineau](https://www.eacousineau.com/)<sup>3</sup>,
[Benjamin Burchfiel](http://www.benburchfiel.com/)<sup>3</sup>,
[Siyuan Feng](https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~sfeng/)<sup>3</sup>,

[Russ Tedrake](https://groups.csail.mit.edu/locomotion/russt.html)<sup>3</sup>,
[Shuran Song](https://www.cs.columbia.edu/~shurans/)<sup>1,2</sup>

<sup>1</sup>Stanford University,
<sup>2</sup>Columbia University,
<sup>3</sup>Toyota Research Institute

## 🛠️ Installation
### Docker dev env install
Note - this is specifically set up to run on `sheep`, Northwestern MSR's
GPU server. TODO make sure this works elsewhere/make the instructions more general.
```bash
docker build -t polyumi
docker run -e DISPLAY=$DISPLAY   -v /tmp/.X11-unix:/tmp/.X11-unix --gpus all --device /dev/dri:/dev/dri \
-v $(pwd)/data:/data \
-e HOST_BIND_PATH=$(pwd)/data \
-v $XDG_RUNTIME_DIR/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock \
-it polyumi
```

### Original UMI install
Only tested on Ubuntu 22.04

Install docker following the [official documentation](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/) and finish [linux-postinstall](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/linux-postinstall/).

Install system-level dependencies:
```console
$ sudo apt install -y libosmesa6-dev libgl1-mesa-glx libglfw3 patchelf
```

We recommend [Miniforge](https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge?tab=readme-ov-file#miniforge3) instead of the standard anaconda distribution for faster installation: 
```console
$ mamba env create -f conda_environment.yaml
```

Activate environment
```console
$ conda activate umi
(umi)$ 
```

## Running UMI SLAM pipeline
Download example data
```console
(umi)$ wget --recursive --no-parent --no-host-directories --cut-dirs=2 --relative --reject="index.html*" https://real.stanford.edu/umi/data/example_demo_session/
```

Run SLAM pipeline
```console
(umi)$ python run_slam_pipeline.py example_demo_session

...
Found following cameras:
camera_serial
C3441328164125    5
Name: count, dtype: int64
Assigned camera_idx: right=0; left=1; non_gripper=2,3...
             camera_serial  gripper_hw_idx                                     example_vid
camera_idx                                                                                
0           C3441328164125               0  demo_C3441328164125_2024.01.10_10.57.34.882133
99% of raw data are used.
defaultdict(<function main.<locals>.<lambda> at 0x7f471feb2310>, {})
n_dropped_demos 0
````
For this dataset, 99% of the data are useable (successful SLAM), with 0 demonstrations dropped. If your dataset has a low SLAM success rate, double check if you carefully followed our [data collection instruction](https://swanky-sphere-ad1.notion.site/UMI-Data-Collection-Instruction-4db1a1f0f2aa4a2e84d9742720428b4c). 

Despite our significant effort on robustness improvement, OBR_SLAM3 is still the most fragile part of UMI pipeline. If you are an expert in SLAM, please consider contributing to our fork of [OBR_SLAM3](https://github.com/cheng-chi/ORB_SLAM3) which is specifically optimized for UMI workflow.

Generate dataset for training.
```console
(umi)$ python scripts_slam_pipeline/07_generate_replay_buffer.py -o example_demo_session/dataset.zarr.zip example_demo_session
```

## Training Diffusion Policy
Single-GPU training. Tested to work on RTX3090 24GB.
```console
(umi)$ python train.py --config-name=train_diffusion_unet_timm_umi_workspace task.dataset_path=example_demo_session/dataset.zarr.zip
```

Multi-GPU training.
```console
(umi)$ accelerate --num_processes <ngpus> train.py --config-name=train_diffusion_unet_timm_umi_workspace task.dataset_path=example_demo_session/dataset.zarr.zip
```

Downloading in-the-wild cup arrangement dataset (processed).
```console
(umi)$ wget https://real.stanford.edu/umi/data/zarr_datasets/cup_in_the_wild.zarr.zip
```

Multi-GPU training.
```console
(umi)$ accelerate --num_processes <ngpus> train.py --config-name=train_diffusion_unet_timm_umi_workspace task.dataset_path=cup_in_the_wild.zarr.zip
```

## 🦾 Real-world Deployment
In this section, we will demonstrate our real-world deployment/evaluation system with the cup arrangement policy. While this policy setup only requires a single arm and camera, the our system supports up to 2 arms and unlimited number of cameras.

### ⚙️ Hardware Setup
1. Build deployment hardware according to our [Hardware Guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1TPYwV9sNVPAi0ZlAupDMkXZ4CA1hsZx7YDMSmcEy6EU).
2. Setup UR5 with teach pendant:
    * Obtain IP address and update [eval_robots_config.yaml](example/eval_robots_config.yaml)/robots/robot_ip.
    * In Installation > Payload
        * Set mass to 1.81 kg
        * Set center of gravity to (2, -6, 37)mm, CX/CY/CZ.
    * TCP will be set automatically by the eval script.
    * On UR5e, switch control mode to remote.

    If you are using Franka, follow this [instruction](franka_instruction.md).
3. Setup WSG50 gripper with web interface:
    * Obtain IP address and update [eval_robots_config.yaml](example/eval_robots_config.yaml)/grippers/gripper_ip.
    * In Settings > Command Interface
        * Disable "Use text based Interface"
        * Enable CRC
    * In Scripting > File Manager
        * Upload [umi/real_world/cmd_measure.lua](umi/real_world/cmd_measure.lua)
    * In Settings > System
        * Enable Startup Script
        * Select `/user/cmd_measure.lua` you just uploaded.
4. Setup GoPro:
    * Install GoPro Labs [firmware](https://gopro.com/en/us/info/gopro-labs).
    * Set date and time.
    * Scan the following QR code for clean HDMI output 
    <br><img width="50%" src="assets/QR-MHDMI1mV0r27Tp60fWe0hS0sLcFg1dV.png">
5. Setup [3Dconnexion SpaceMouse](https://www.amazon.com/3Dconnexion-SpaceMouse-Wireless-universal-receiver/dp/B079V367MM):
    * Install libspnav `sudo apt install libspnav-dev spacenavd`
    * Start spnavd `sudo systemctl start spacenavd`

### 🤗 Reproducing the Cup Arrangement Policy ☕
Our in-the-wild cup arragement policy is trained with the distribution of ["espresso cup with saucer"](https://www.amazon.com/s?k=espresso+cup+with+saucer) on Amazon across 30 different locations around Stanford. We created a [Amazon shopping list](https://www.amazon.com/hz/wishlist/ls/Q0T8U2N5U3IU?ref_=wl_share) for all cups used for training. We published the processed [Zarr dataset and](https://real.stanford.edu/umi/data/zarr_datasets) pre-trained [checkpoint](https://real.stanford.edu/umi/data/pretrained_models/) (finetuned CLIP ViT-L backbone).

<img width="90%" src="assets/umi_cup.gif">

Download pre-trained checkpoint.
```console
(umi)$ wget https://real.stanford.edu/umi/data/pretrained_models/cup_wild_vit_l_1img.ckpt
```

Grant permission to the HDMI capture card.
```console
(umi)$ sudo chmod -R 777 /dev/bus/usb
```

Launch eval script.
```console
(umi)$ python eval_real.py --robot_config=example/eval_robots_config.yaml -i cup_wild_vit_l.ckpt -o data/eval_cup_wild_example
```
After the script started, use your spacemouse to control the robot and the gripper (spacemouse buttons). Press `C` to start the policy. Press `S` to stop.

If everything are setup correctly, your robot should be able to rotate the cup and placing it onto the saucer, anywhere 🎉

Known issue ⚠️: The policy doesn't work well under direct sunlight, since the dataset was collected during a rainiy week at Stanford.

### 🤗 Reproducing Policies on ARX X5 Robot Arms
Please follow [umi-on-legs](https://github.com/real-stanford/umi-on-legs) for hardware modification and [umi-arx](https://github.com/real-stanford/umi-arx) for detailed policy deployment instructions. 

<img width="90%" src="assets/umi_cup_arx.gif">

## 🏷️ License
This repository is released under the MIT license. See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for additional details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgement
* Our GoPro SLAM pipeline is adapted from [Steffen Urban](https://github.com/urbste)'s [fork](https://github.com/urbste/ORB_SLAM3) of [OBR_SLAM3](https://github.com/UZ-SLAMLab/ORB_SLAM3).
* We used [Steffen Urban](https://github.com/urbste)'s [OpenImuCameraCalibrator](https://github.com/urbste/OpenImuCameraCalibrator/) for camera and IMU calibration.
* The UMI gripper's core mechanism is adpated from [Push/Pull Gripper](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:2204113) by [John Mulac](https://www.thingiverse.com/3dprintingworld/designs).
* UMI's soft finger is adapted from [Alex Alspach](http://alexalspach.com/)'s original design at TRI.

Commit message:

SLAM script works all the way through in docker (per command in readme)
code is messy, will clean it up shortly

README.md, after:

# Universal Manipulation Interface

[[Project page]](https://umi-gripper.github.io/)
[[Paper]](https://umi-gripper.github.io/#paper)
[[Hardware Guide]](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1TPYwV9sNVPAi0ZlAupDMkXZ4CA1hsZx7YDMSmcEy6EU/edit?usp=sharing)
[[Data Collection Instruction]](https://swanky-sphere-ad1.notion.site/UMI-Data-Collection-Tutorial-4db1a1f0f2aa4a2e84d9742720428b4c?pvs=4)
[[SLAM repo]](https://github.com/cheng-chi/ORB_SLAM3)
[[SLAM docker]](https://hub.docker.com/r/chicheng/orb_slam3)

<img width="90%" src="assets/umi_teaser.png">

[Cheng Chi](http://cheng-chi.github.io/)<sup>1,2</sup>,
[Zhenjia Xu](https://www.zhenjiaxu.com/)<sup>1,2</sup>,
[Chuer Pan](https://chuerpan.com/)<sup>1</sup>,
[Eric Cousineau](https://www.eacousineau.com/)<sup>3</sup>,
[Benjamin Burchfiel](http://www.benburchfiel.com/)<sup>3</sup>,
[Siyuan Feng](https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~sfeng/)<sup>3</sup>,

[Russ Tedrake](https://groups.csail.mit.edu/locomotion/russt.html)<sup>3</sup>,
[Shuran Song](https://www.cs.columbia.edu/~shurans/)<sup>1,2</sup>

<sup>1</sup>Stanford University,
<sup>2</sup>Columbia University,
<sup>3</sup>Toyota Research Institute

## 🛠️ Installation
### Docker dev env install
Note - this is specifically set up to run on `sheep`, Northwestern MSR's
GPU server. TODO make sure this works elsewhere/make the instructions more general.
```bash
docker build -t polyumi
docker run -e DISPLAY=$DISPLAY   -v /tmp/.X11-unix:/tmp/.X11-unix --gpus all --device /dev/dri:/dev/dri \
-v $(pwd)/data:/data \
-e HOST_BIND_PATH=$(pwd)/data \
-v $XDG_RUNTIME_DIR/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock \
-v $(pwd):/ros2_ws \
-it polyumi
# remove the mount of ros2_ws if you don't want to edit code on the host machine
```

### Original UMI install
Only tested on Ubuntu 22.04

Install docker following the [official documentation](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/) and finish [linux-postinstall](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/linux-postinstall/).

Install system-level dependencies:
```console
$ sudo apt install -y libosmesa6-dev libgl1-mesa-glx libglfw3 patchelf
```

We recommend [Miniforge](https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge?tab=readme-ov-file#miniforge3) instead of the standard anaconda distribution for faster installation: 
```console
$ mamba env create -f conda_environment.yaml
```

Activate environment
```console
$ conda activate umi
(umi)$ 
```

## Running UMI SLAM pipeline
Download example data
```console
(umi)$ wget --recursive --no-parent --no-host-directories --cut-dirs=2 --relative --reject="index.html*" https://real.stanford.edu/umi/data/example_demo_session/
```

Run SLAM pipeline
```console
(umi)$ python run_slam_pipeline.py example_demo_session

...
Found following cameras:
camera_serial
C3441328164125    5
Name: count, dtype: int64
Assigned camera_idx: right=0; left=1; non_gripper=2,3...
             camera_serial  gripper_hw_idx                                     example_vid
camera_idx                                                                                
0           C3441328164125               0  demo_C3441328164125_2024.01.10_10.57.34.882133
99% of raw data are used.
defaultdict(<function main.<locals>.<lambda> at 0x7f471feb2310>, {})
n_dropped_demos 0
````
For this dataset, 99% of the data are useable (successful SLAM), with 0 demonstrations dropped. If your dataset has a low SLAM success rate, double check if you carefully followed our [data collection instruction](https://swanky-sphere-ad1.notion.site/UMI-Data-Collection-Instruction-4db1a1f0f2aa4a2e84d9742720428b4c). 

Despite our significant effort on robustness improvement, OBR_SLAM3 is still the most fragile part of UMI pipeline. If you are an expert in SLAM, please consider contributing to our fork of [OBR_SLAM3](https://github.com/cheng-chi/ORB_SLAM3) which is specifically optimized for UMI workflow.

Generate dataset for training.
```console
(umi)$ python scripts_slam_pipeline/07_generate_replay_buffer.py -o example_demo_session/dataset.zarr.zip example_demo_session
```

## Training Diffusion Policy
Single-GPU training. Tested to work on RTX3090 24GB.
```console
(umi)$ python train.py --config-name=train_diffusion_unet_timm_umi_workspace task.dataset_path=example_demo_session/dataset.zarr.zip
```

Multi-GPU training.
```console
(umi)$ accelerate --num_processes <ngpus> train.py --config-name=train_diffusion_unet_timm_umi_workspace task.dataset_path=example_demo_session/dataset.zarr.zip
```

Downloading in-the-wild cup arrangement dataset (processed).
```console
(umi)$ wget https://real.stanford.edu/umi/data/zarr_datasets/cup_in_the_wild.zarr.zip
```

Multi-GPU training.
```console
(umi)$ accelerate --num_processes <ngpus> train.py --config-name=train_diffusion_unet_timm_umi_workspace task.dataset_path=cup_in_the_wild.zarr.zip
```

## 🦾 Real-world Deployment
In this section, we will demonstrate our real-world deployment/evaluation system with the cup arrangement policy. While this policy setup only requires a single arm and camera, the our system supports up to 2 arms and unlimited number of cameras.

### ⚙️ Hardware Setup
1. Build deployment hardware according to our [Hardware Guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1TPYwV9sNVPAi0ZlAupDMkXZ4CA1hsZx7YDMSmcEy6EU).
2. Setup UR5 with teach pendant:
    * Obtain IP address and update [eval_robots_config.yaml](example/eval_robots_config.yaml)/robots/robot_ip.
    * In Installation > Payload
        * Set mass to 1.81 kg
        * Set center of gravity to (2, -6, 37)mm, CX/CY/CZ.
    * TCP will be set automatically by the eval script.
    * On UR5e, switch control mode to remote.

    If you are using Franka, follow this [instruction](franka_instruction.md).
3. Setup WSG50 gripper with web interface:
    * Obtain IP address and update [eval_robots_config.yaml](example/eval_robots_config.yaml)/grippers/gripper_ip.
    * In Settings > Command Interface
        * Disable "Use text based Interface"
        * Enable CRC
    * In Scripting > File Manager
        * Upload [umi/real_world/cmd_measure.lua](umi/real_world/cmd_measure.lua)
    * In Settings > System
        * Enable Startup Script
        * Select `/user/cmd_measure.lua` you just uploaded.
4. Setup GoPro:
    * Install GoPro Labs [firmware](https://gopro.com/en/us/info/gopro-labs).
    * Set date and time.
    * Scan the following QR code for clean HDMI output 
    <br><img width="50%" src="assets/QR-MHDMI1mV0r27Tp60fWe0hS0sLcFg1dV.png">
5. Setup [3Dconnexion SpaceMouse](https://www.amazon.com/3Dconnexion-SpaceMouse-Wireless-universal-receiver/dp/B079V367MM):
    * Install libspnav `sudo apt install libspnav-dev spacenavd`
    * Start spnavd `sudo systemctl start spacenavd`

### 🤗 Reproducing the Cup Arrangement Policy ☕
Our in-the-wild cup arragement policy is trained with the distribution of ["espresso cup with saucer"](https://www.amazon.com/s?k=espresso+cup+with+saucer) on Amazon across 30 different locations around Stanford. We created a [Amazon shopping list](https://www.amazon.com/hz/wishlist/ls/Q0T8U2N5U3IU?ref_=wl_share) for all cups used for training. We published the processed [Zarr dataset and](https://real.stanford.edu/umi/data/zarr_datasets) pre-trained [checkpoint](https://real.stanford.edu/umi/data/pretrained_models/) (finetuned CLIP ViT-L backbone).

<img width="90%" src="assets/umi_cup.gif">

Download pre-trained checkpoint.
```console
(umi)$ wget https://real.stanford.edu/umi/data/pretrained_models/cup_wild_vit_l_1img.ckpt
```

Grant permission to the HDMI capture card.
```console
(umi)$ sudo chmod -R 777 /dev/bus/usb
```

Launch eval script.
```console
(umi)$ python eval_real.py --robot_config=example/eval_robots_config.yaml -i cup_wild_vit_l.ckpt -o data/eval_cup_wild_example
```
After the script started, use your spacemouse to control the robot and the gripper (spacemouse buttons). Press `C` to start the policy. Press `S` to stop.

If everything are setup correctly, your robot should be able to rotate the cup and placing it onto the saucer, anywhere 🎉

Known issue ⚠️: The policy doesn't work well under direct sunlight, since the dataset was collected during a rainiy week at Stanford.

### 🤗 Reproducing Policies on ARX X5 Robot Arms
Please follow [umi-on-legs](https://github.com/real-stanford/umi-on-legs) for hardware modification and [umi-arx](https://github.com/real-stanford/umi-arx) for detailed policy deployment instructions. 

<img width="90%" src="assets/umi_cup_arx.gif">

## 🏷️ License
This repository is released under the MIT license. See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for additional details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgement
* Our GoPro SLAM pipeline is adapted from [Steffen Urban](https://github.com/urbste)'s [fork](https://github.com/urbste/ORB_SLAM3) of [OBR_SLAM3](https://github.com/UZ-SLAMLab/ORB_SLAM3).
* We used [Steffen Urban](https://github.com/urbste)'s [OpenImuCameraCalibrator](https://github.com/urbste/OpenImuCameraCalibrator/) for camera and IMU calibration.
* The UMI gripper's core mechanism is adpated from [Push/Pull Gripper](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:2204113) by [John Mulac](https://www.thingiverse.com/3dprintingworld/designs).
* UMI's soft finger is adapted from [Alex Alspach](http://alexalspach.com/)'s original design at TRI.
